now.md, before:

---
 layout: page
 title: Now
 permalink: /now/
 weight: 2
---
 
# What I'm Focused On Now
<p>Credit: <a href="https://nownownow.com/about" target="_blank">Derek Sivers</a></p>

![Theresa on a bridge](https://i.imgur.com/FoSuC4U.jpg)

## Personally
I am living in Portland, Oregon, enjoying the sun! 
Yet, because of the pandemic, I am finding lots of time to focus on myself, so 
I am trying to read more books, listen to more podcasts, and watch more movies.
Currently, I am reading *What You Should Know About Politics ... But Don't*,
and I am listening to *Up First*, *OPB Politics*, *Freakonomics*, and *538 Politics*.
In addition to this, I am learning hip hop dance after a long hiatus, and I am learning how to cook without causing chaos!

## Professionally
For this year, I am honored to be an intern for State Representative Ricki Ruiz, where I get to track legislation, research bills, and develop my own town hall. 
On the side, I am currently developing a policy memo for a public official as an Oregon State University Legislative Scholar, and I am also a minutes contractor for the City of Corvallis!

## News
* 5/7/2021: Just received news that I will be one of six peer leaders for the upcoming University Legislative Scholars cohort. :tada:
* 4/31/2021: I accepted an internship offer with Oregon Wild for the summer and Rep. Ruiz for the interim (fall). As someone with a soft spot for conservation, I am so excited to get into wildlife protections and return to the Ruiz team for the upcoming legislative session! :owl:
* 4/16/2021: I am going to be a minutes contractor for the City of Corvallis starting May! As a policy wonk, I am so excited to observe a local government in action, and I look forward to joining Corvallis' awesome team. :tada:
* 3/15/2021: I am starting my legislative internship with State Representative Ricki Ruiz for this long session. Having worked with the representative and his staff on the campaign trail, I am excited about what this team will do! :muscle:

Commit message:

Edited page to include updates on professional, personal, and news.
Just talked about new hobbies. New commuting situation. Also, on updated professional situation, and recent news around NLO and Multnomah County.

now.md, after:

---
 layout: page
 title: Now
 permalink: /now/
 weight: 2
---
 
# What I'm Focused On Now
<p>Credit: <a href="https://nownownow.com/about" target="_blank">Derek Sivers</a></p>

![Theresa on a bridge](https://i.imgur.com/FoSuC4U.jpg)

## Personally
I am living in Portland, Oregon, enjoying the sun, with the occassional trip down in Corvallis for school, research, speech and debate, and University Legislative Scholars! 
Yet, because of the pandemic, I am finding lots of time to focus on myself, so 
I am trying to read more books, listen to more podcasts, and watch more movies.
Currently, I am reading *What You Should Know About Politics ... But Don't*,
and I am listening to *Up First*, *OPB Politics*, *Freakonomics*, and *538 Politics*.
In addition to this, I am starting to explore the state of Oregon and get into nature journaling.

## Professionally
Currently, I am finishing my internship with Oregon Wild, and then, I will be back in the Oregon State Legislature as the legislative intern under Rep. Ricki Ruiz.
I am also working on a research project, which may go the educational psychology or social psychology route, but we'll see when the term starts! 

## News
* 8/25/2021: I will be serving as a member of the Multnomah County Charter Review Commission. I'm so excited!
* 8/11/2021: As a 2021 member of the NEW Leadership Oregon cohort, I look forward for the cohort retreat in September. Fingers crossed that it can be in person. If not, it is still a great opportunity to be around many amazing people. :blush:
* 5/7/2021: Just received news that I will be one of six peer leaders for the upcoming University Legislative Scholars cohort. :tada:
